Update documentation to reflect RFC002 and RFC005 (#1237)
tweag/nickel: doc/manual/syntax.md

3
```

### Types

The Nickel syntax mixes both terms and types in the same namespace. The
following program is perfectly legal: `let value = Number -> (fun value label =>
value) in ((fun x => x + 1) : value)`. See the

> [RFC002](https://github.com/tweag/nickel/blob/d723a3721c6b0fe9c4b856e889bb7211d6136665/rfcs/002-merge-types-terms-syntax.md)

Reviewer: Is there any reason you are referencing the `RFC002` file from a particular commit instead of, say, `master`?

Author: But in general the RFC should be pretty much set in stone (if you need to evolve, better write a new one), so the benefit of being renaming/move/deletion resilient is probably higher than the risk of getting out of date?

for a detailed account of this design.

The documentation still makes a distinction between *types* and other

> expressions, the former being constructs which are handled specifically by the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
expressions, the former being constructs which are handled specially by the
```

typechecker and are listed below. However, any expression can be considered a

> type (in the generic case, it's considered as an opaque type), and types

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
type (in the generic case, it's considered as an opaque type), and type
```

constructors can also appear inside an expression (where they are understood as
their associated contract, which is indeed an expression, most often a
function).

Thus, placeholders such as `<source>`, `<target>` or `<type>` can actually be
substituted for any valid Nickel expression (which includes the type
constructors we've just listed), and types can appear anywhere.

Nickel features the following builtin types and type constructors:

- Primitive types: `Number`, `String`, `Bool`, and `Dyn` (the dynamic type, wich
represents any value)
- Array: `Array <type>` is an array whose elements are of type `<type>`.
- Dictionary: `{_ : <type>}` is a record whose fields are of type `<type>`.
- Enum: ``[| `tag1, .., `tagn |]`` is an enumeration comprised of alternatives
  `` `tag1 ``, .., `` `tagn``. Tags have the same syntax as identifiers and must

>   be prefixed with a backtick `` ` ``. As for record fields, they can be however
>   espaced with double quotes if they contain special characters:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  be prefixed with a backtick `` ` ``. As for record fields, they can however be
  enclosed in double quotes if they contain special characters:
```

  `` `"tag with space" ``.
- Arrow: `<source> -> <target>` is a function taking an argument of type
  `<source>` and returns values of type `<target>`.
- Forall: `forall var1 .. varn. <type>` is a polymorphic type quantifying over type
variables `var1`, .., `varn`.
- Record: see the next section [Record types](#record-types).

Type variables bound by a `forall` are only visible inside types (any of the

> constructor listed above). As soon as a term expression arise under a `forall`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
constructor listed above). As soon as a term expression arises under a `forall`
```

```test
> forall a. a -> (a -> a) -> {_ : {foo : a}}
<func>

> forall a. a -> (a -> (fun x => a))
error: unbound identifier
  ┌─ repl-input-4:1:32
  │
1 │ forall a. a -> (a -> (fun x => a))
  │                                ^ this identifier is unbound
```

Examples:

```text
> let f : forall a. a -> a = fun x => x in (f 5 : Number)
5

> {foo = [[1]]} : {foo : Array (Array Number)}
{ foo = [ [ 1 ] ] }

> let select
    : forall a. {left: a, right: a} -> [| `left, `right |] -> a
    = fun {left, right} =>
       match {
         `left => left,
         `right => right,
       }
  in
  (select {left = true, right = false} `left) : Bool
true

> let add_foo : forall a. {_: a} -> a -> {_: a} = fun dict value =>
    record.insert "foo" value dict
in
add_foo {bar = 1} 5 : _
{ bar = 1, foo = 5 }

> {foo = 1, bar = "string"} : {_ : Number}
error: incompatible types
  ┌─ repl-input-12:1:17
  │
1 │ {foo = 1, bar = "string"} : {_ : Number}
  │                 ^^^^^^^^ this expression
  │
  = The type of the expression was expected to be `Number`
  = The type of the expression was inferred to be `String`
  = These types are not compatible
```

#### Record types

> Record types are syntactically a restricted subset of records literal. They are
> handled differently from normal record literals with respect to typechecking.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Record types are syntactically a restricted subset of record literals. They are
handled differently than normal record literals with respect to typechecking.
```

is a parse error.

Examples:

```text
> {foo = 1, bar = "foo" } : {foo : Number, bar: String}
{ bar = "foo", foo = 1 }

> {foo.bar = 1, baz = 2} : {foo: {bar : Number}, baz : Number}
{ baz = 2, foo = { bar = 1 } }

># the right-hand side is missing a type annotation for baz, so it isn't a
 # record type
 {foo = 1, bar = "foo" } : {foo : Number, bar : String, baz}
error: incompatible types
  ┌─ repl-input-6:1:1
  │
1 │ {foo = 1, bar = "foo" } : {foo : Number, bar : String, baz}
  │ ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ this expression
  │
  = The type of the expression was expected to be `{ bar : String, baz, foo : Numb…` (a contract)
  = The type of the expression was inferred to be `{bar: _a, foo: _b}`
  = Static types and contracts are not compatible

> # the annotation has a metadata
 {foo = 1, bar = "foo" } : {foo : Number, bar : String | optional}
error: incompatible types
[..]

> # while MyDyn isn't a proper type, the right record respect all the
  # requirements of a record type
let MyDyn = fun label value => value in
{foo = 1, bar | MyDyn = "foo"} : {foo : Number, bar : MyDyn}
{ bar = "foo", foo = 1 }
```

## Metadata

> Metadata are used to attach type and contract annotations, documentation, a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Metadata is used to attach type and contract annotations, documentation, a
```

Author: Waiting for the conclusion of the "plural vs singular" metadata for this one.

merge priority or other decorations to record fields (and record fields only).

> Multiple metadata can be chained. A metadata is introduced with the syntax

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Multiple metadata annotations can be chained. Metadata is introduced with the syntax
```
